# Airbnb-Price-Predictions
## Introduction
Since its inception in 2008, Airbnb has become the undisputed leader of shared economy. It not only provides cheap rentals and local interaction, but also serves as a means of earning for the property owner<sup>(1)</sup>. Price is one of the most important factors for selection of a listing<sup>(4)</sup>. Because of the growing popularity of Airbnb, a lot of studies have focussed on what factors affect the pricing of Airbnb listings<sup>(2)(3)</sup>. For example, (4) employed a Generalized Linear Model as well as a Geographically Weighted Regression Model to identify various factors affecting the price. 

The main aim of this project is to use various machine learning algorithms to find the factors which affect the price of a listing in the city of Edinburgh, UK. Initially, some data preprocessing is done to clean some attributes and handle missing values. Folium is used to draw HeatMap of the listings and average price is plotted for each neighborhood. Then, Seaborn and Matplotlib packages are used to visualize the dataset. Next, some categorical attributes are recoded and one-hot encoding is done. Finally, 3 machine learning algorithms are applied to the dataset; K-Nearest Neighbors Regressor, Random Forest Regressor and LightGBM. Mean squared error and R<sup>2</sup> values are calculated for each model.   

The dataset for this project was downloaded as a csv file from the website InsideAirbnb (insideairbnb.com). InsideAirbnb employs data scraping methods to collect and store data from the Airbnb website. The csv and shapefiles consists of all the details for Airbnb listings in Edinburgh. 
